So we spend some time on the input but handling user input is important.
You want to do it in a way that feels natural to the user.
That makes sense to the user.
And where you'll never trust your user and you'll always validate what the user interests.
And we'll dive deeper into this whole validation thing.
User input handing things later in the course where we also accept more complex input than a simple
number.
But for now this was a great first look at how you can styles such a input and how you can make sure
you get the data you need with that I don't know about you but I think it's time to also progressed
with our game because we're kind of stuck here.
These were all important steps but we're not really progressing with our game or with our app here.
So let's make sure we do that as a next step and we're dead.
Why don't we make sure that our buttons do something let's start with the reset button real quick because
that will be a simple one when you press it.
I of course simply want to reset the entered value so I'll register a new function up there in the start
game screen component name it reset Input handler and that's just the naming convention I like name
these functions which are triggered upon a user event something handler at the end just to make it clear
that these handles certain events.
It's not a must do just a preference I have for react apps in general and therefore all the We Act native
apps.
This will be a function which then calls set entered value which is our state setting function here
to update the state we feed back into the input and set this to an empty string.
And yeah with that we can connect this to the reset button here on Press should now simply execute.
Do you reset Input handler like that.
Let's give it a quick try.
Let's enter something here reset and it's gone.
That's looking good.
And also make sure Dad.
This button here to confirm.
Button does something for Dad I'll add and no button confirm Input handler and we could simply start
the game immediately here but all just a practice does.
I want to give the user one final chance of changing his choice so here I just want to kind of output.
This is your choice.
Do you want to start message where then the user gets a button to start to game just the extra step.
So we have some extra practice here for that.
I'll add a new state which manages there has to user confirmed yet state and initially dead is false.
But of course we can change this and we want to be able to get the current state.
So here we get Weber to user has confirmed they're not.
And we can set this conference state with that second element in the array we're extracting so down
data and confirm Input handler I set confirm to true on the reset Input handler by the way I set this
to false because the user clicks reset the user certainly hasn't confront the values so we should reset
this at this year and to confirm Input handler.
I also wanted to do two different things to other things.
One is reset the entered value but all of course safety entered value as the value with which we would
start the game.
We can do that with yet another state.
We're managing which initially holds nothing has no value is undefined initially because dad should
be the selected number and dad should know all to really be a number and not some text.
So here we have to select a number and a function to set it.
And when the user clicked confirm before I reset my entered value though this year will all be batch
together anyway so we can all do use the entered value here after setting it to an empty string because
this will only be done in the next render cycle and not immediately after this line is executed.
So we can still safely execute or access does entered value thereafter if you want to.
Because here I want to set my entered value with parse and by passing the entered value so I set this
to be my selected number.
And again I can still access entered value here even though we reset it because this reset thing here
will basically be queued by react and will only be processed the next time the component is rendered
thereafter.
And these free state changes are all batch to gather to result in one renderer cycle so we can safely
access entered value here but we can also simply do it before we reset it.
It does not matter.
The important thing is however that we past does as a integer so that we convert this text to a number
here and actually I'll add yet another extra step before I do that right at the beginning.
I'll have my chosen number here which is the past number.
And before I do anything I want to check if chosen number is not a number which is a default javascript
value.
So if it somehow is still not a number even though we're trying to check for invalid characters or if
chosen number is smaller or equal to zero.
If it is then I just want to return.
I don't want to continue.
So return will finish the function execution and will not confirm will not use this as a value because
the value is invalid.
Only positive numbers are allowed and no invalid numbers are allowed.
In addition I also want to add one extra check and check if the chosen number maybe is greater than
99 because that would also not be allowed.
I want to have a number between 1 and 99 and it should be a number if it's not fitting that criteria
then will return now otherwise we'll set this chosen number as the selected number and then resets the
input and then D Free set state calls will be batch together and the component will re render and we'll
have our new state that has this number taken into account as the selected number so now we can connect
you confirm input handler to the confirm button here and now some visual feedback would all be nice
to see that confirming worked or to also get an error or if we violated one of these rules here so that
we don't just return but also show an alert.
Now let's maybe start with the feedback before we then work on the alert for the feedback.
Here below dysfunction but inside of our functional component I want to check if we have confirmed and
then set some special content that should be output.
So here we have the confirmed output which normally is just undefined.
But if we have confirmed then confirmed output is some J is X code where we kind of summarize what the
user entered and give the user a d start game button.
Now just to see where it works let's go that with some text here and just say chosen number and output
these selected number here selected number.
This is our estate we're managing here.
So since we call set confirmed it's on the component will re render Windows is chosen.
So this whole component function will execute again and that means that confirmed will then be true
for this next run because we set it to true here and therefore will set confirmed output to be that
text.
And now we can add the confirmed output let's say here below our cart.
So there I want to output two confirmed output and that's even undefined not printing anything to the
screen.
Or it's this text with that saved if we go back back and I enter number and confirm it here we see the
number.
If I enter something invalid like zero we don't see it.
So our check seems to work and a valid number is output though.
Now that's not the final design I want to have but that proves that it works.
Before we finalize this to sign let's make sure that we also show an alert if something invalid is entered.